# CropRecommendationML

There are still major constraints in agriculture asso- ciated with drastic changes in climate, the inability to restore the exhausted soil, and the lack of knowledge and practice regarding contemporary farming that puts annual production and farmer’s income at risk. To address these issues, it is necessary to introduce methods based on advanced machine learning algorithms. In this study, five different ML models which are Support Vector Machine, K-Nearest Neighbors, Random Forest, Linear Discrim- inant Analysis, and XGBoost are tested by utilizing a dataset obtained from the Kaggle library that contains data on NPK, soil pH, temperature, rainfall, and humidity. Based on this, the paper involves suggesting 22 crops concerning Correlation Analysis with the usage of the MinMaxScalar technique, enhanced by methods including Dataset Sanity, Scaling, Confusion Matrix, Error Evaluation, and Data Visualization. More so, the study seeks to present practical solutions regarding the choice of crops to be grown, and the determinations of the crop nutrient, as well as serving to reduce the effects of climate in farming. Feature selection, error estimation, and results visualization are consistently performed to guarantee the model’s efficacy. The study brings to light the fact that Random Forest possesses better capabilities as compared to the other classifications and obtains an accuracy level of 99.32 percent in predicting agricultural forecasts. This research helps to create crop recommendations depending on the environmental conditions and contributes to the further creation of an appealing AI cloud-based interface. An interface would be an opportunity to make fast decisions on the use of the fertilizers and choice of different crops in definite territories.

The main purpose of the present work is to give recommen- dations for choosing the crops to be grown and estimating the amounts of nutrients to use in combating the consequences of climate change on agricultural yields. To increase the precision of crop recommendation this research implemented data preprocessing comprised of data cleaning that involved removing duplicates, null values, and outliers, normalization by MinMaxScaler, and encoding categorical data. For data splitting Holdout method was used by following these steps: The features and targets of the data were divided into 80 % of the data used for training the model and 20 % was used to test the results. The random state used was 40 to make the results reproducible. The model selection was proposed based on the different core algorithms used by these models for predicting and accuracy levels. Programs such as scikit-learn which is in Python, numpy, and pandas were used in these processes while data visualization was done by Matplotlib and Plotly. The model’s evaluation was done using a confusion matrix and error prediction. This comprehensive approach gives confidence that the results of this research shall be Reusable, Reliable, and Consistent for the Model training and Model evaluation processes.
